---
layout: page
title: "About"
permalink: /about/
---

For this project, I used the software Sifaka to index Haruki Murakami’s fiction corpus. To use this service, I needed to put together clean text files for the application to work with. I pulled the files from a site named Libgen, which collects pdf, epub, html, and other formats of books and makes them available for the public. I chose to focus solely on Murakami’s fiction, his novels and short story collections, of which there were 18 texts. Next, I cleaned any metadata manually from the texts by removing tables of contents, publication information, etc. that would disrupt the process. Once I had built the index, I discovered that there were ASCII characters in the text that Sifaka could not read, so I used a text editor named Atom to find and replace characters that were causing issues when indexing the text by bigrams and trigrams. Ultimately, this did not solve the problem, as I learned that Sifaka was recognizing all punctuation as ASCII characters, and I have not yet been able to find a solution. Nonetheless, this issue did not affect named-entity-recognition, and I then used the software to look at the most popular named-entities in the corpus by looking at document frequency (how many documents a word appears in) and collection frequency (how many times a word shows up in the corpus as a whole). 

In terms of limitations, the project currently cannot fully provide context for the use of Western named-entities in the corpus, as I was not able to get the service to direct to specific instances in the text of a word’s use, as it would only link to the full text. I believe, to progress further in the project, I will need to begin learning Python and re-creating some of the work of this application in it. This knowledge would also give me the ability to work with vector semantics on this project. In particular, I would like to look at the concepts and themes that surround these named-entities in Murakami’s fiction to see what types of positives and negatives he associates with the West. It would be interesting, too, to see how the relations made with Western names correspond to those associated with Japanese named-entities, to see in what ways Murakami favors or downplays artists with backgrounds relating to specific nationalities. Now that Murakami’s favoritism towards the West has been shown through this research, the question can now turn to the motivations behind *why* he prefers to show Western culture. 


Click [here] [jekyll-bibliography] to visit the bibliography for the project. 

[jekyll-bibliography]: https://cvaughan12.github.io/cpvaughan7/bibliography/