---
layout: post
title:  "Investigating Westernization in Murakami's Fiction Corpus Using Named-Entity-Recognition"
date:   2022-12-13 12:00 +0100
---
Haruki Murakami is no stranger to criticism, particularly from the literary scene in his home country. His style, his inspirations, and the culture inside his novels are frequently described as Western, even though the setting of his books remains as Japan. This mix gives the impression that Murakami is trying to combine two worlds- maintaining a Japanese presence while catering towards the artistic taste of Westerners. Matthew Chozick argues that Murakami’s writings read as exotic to foreigners yet also contain imagery familiar and comfortable to them, providing an environment they recognize but which is also new and tempting (2008, 66). This imagery usually comes in references to Western artists, literature, and music. In *Kafka on the Shore*, for instance, Johnny Walker and Colonel Sanders both feature as major characters, and a main character finds a love for Western classical music which he imparts to others in the novel. In Murakami’s works, Japanese names seem to have been erased and replaced. Due to this perceived Westernization, Murakami is often described as an outcast among his Japanese peers. 

For my research, I decided to test the hypothesis that Murakami favors Western influences by using named-entity-recognition to see what people and places come up most frequently in his work. I put text files of his fiction corpus, his novels and short story collections, into an indexer software named Sifaka and looked at term use frequency. For document frequency, a total of how many documents a term appears in, I found that out of the top seventy most-used names, sixty-eight were Western. The leading ten names were Mozart, Bach, Hitler, Chopin, Brahms, Schubert, Schumann, Shakespeare, Beethoven, and Vivaldi, showing his preference for Western composers. Other names that appeared included Alfred Hitchcock, Benny Goodman, Tolstoy, Ralph Lauren, and Sherlock Holmes. For collection frequency, a total of how many times a word appears in the corpus as a whole, the result was much the same. The most-used named-entities outside of character names or locations were names such as Mozart (32 times), Anna Karenina (18 times), Charlie Parker (20 times), Bob Dylan (13 times), and Bach (25 times).  The only Japanese names within the top seventy names in both lists were Yukio Mishima (2 documents, 2 uses), a canonical Japanese author, and Sanshiro, the name of a novel by Japanese author Natsume Soseki (3 documents, 5 uses). Location reflected much of what was expected, too: Murakami’s works feature the places of Japan, if not its cultural reality. The top locations mentioned by collection frequency were Tokyo (518 times), Japan (233 times), Nagoya (92 times), Shinjuku (76 times), and Sapporo (67 times). There were, however, some surprises in the list, such as Hawaii (50 times), Greece (28 times), and, less surprising, America (21 times). This result shows that while Japan remains as the setting of Murakami’s works, his focus is often elsewhere. 

Murakami himself has been known to comment on his lack of knowledge about Japanese works, saying that “Not once, throughout my formative years, did I have the experience of being moved deeply by a Japanese novel” (Slocombe 2004, 5). He instead cites authors such as Fitzgerald and Dostoevsky as his influences, and even left Japan in the 1980s to live abroad in the U.S, which he referred to as “a self-imposed exile.” (Chozick 2008, 62). These findings open many questions about Murakami’s attachment to Western culture: how do Murakami’s works view and treat Japanese identity? How does he view his own attachment to his homeland? What does it mean for Murakami to be a ‘global author’, and how does this understanding change in the context of Japanese history? These are questions that I am currently exploring and expanding on in my thesis.  


Check out the [about page] [jekyll-about] and the [bibliography] [jekyll-bibliography] for the project.

[jekyll-about]: https://cvaughan12.github.io/cpvaughan7/about/
[jekyll-bibliography]: https://cvaughan12.github.io/cpvaughan7/bibliography/